migration-and-promoting/export-and-import-api.md, before:

---
description: Promoting and moving datasets across environments
---

# Export and Import API

{% hint style="info" %}
The database needs the [stored procedure](export-and-import-api.md#stored-procedure) to use the Export/Import API. 
{% endhint %}

### Step 1 - Get-Exports

Best practice is to use the get-exports endpoint for most scenarios.  You can pass in several dataset names and several tables at once. This endpoint will create a JSON payload

**The three most common tables are:**

* owl_rule
* job_schedule
* owl\__check_repo_

```
http://<url>/v2/get-exports?dataset=public.dataset_scan_2,public.dataset_scan_1&schema=public&tables=owl_rule,job_schedule,owl_check_repo
```

#### Use Swagger to build this for you

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (67).png>)

### Step 2 - Run-Import

{% hint style="info" %}
You will want to perform a find/replace on the import payload to check for differences in connections, agents, spark and environment configurations.  Migrating to different environments typically requires the payload to be modified.
{% endhint %}

Run import on the desired environment, passing the output of the previous statement to the body of the request 

```javascript
http://<url>/v2/run-import
```

This would be the body of the POST.

![](../.gitbook/assets/screen-shot-2021-04-26-at-10.13.18-am.png)

## Stored Procedure

The following function needs to be created in the Owl metastore before this can run. 

```
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION public.dump(p_schema text, p_table text, p_where text)
 RETURNS SETOF text
 LANGUAGE plpgsql
AS $function$
 DECLARE
     dumpquery_0 text;
     dumpquery_1 text;
     selquery text;
     selvalue text;
     valrec record;
     colrec record;
 BEGIN

     -- ------ --
     -- GLOBAL --
     --   build base INSERT
     --   build SELECT array[ ... ]
     dumpquery_0 := 'INSERT INTO ' ||  quote_ident(p_schema) || '.' || quote_ident(p_table) || '(';
     selquery    := 'SELECT array[';

     <<label0>>
     FOR colrec IN SELECT table_schema, table_name, column_name, data_type
                   FROM information_schema.columns
                   WHERE table_name = p_table and table_schema = p_schema
                   ORDER BY ordinal_position
     LOOP
         dumpquery_0 := dumpquery_0 || quote_ident(colrec.column_name) || ',';
         selquery    := selquery    || 'CAST(' || quote_ident(colrec.column_name) || ' AS TEXT),';
     END LOOP label0;

     dumpquery_0 := substring(dumpquery_0 ,1,length(dumpquery_0)-1) || ')';
     dumpquery_0 := dumpquery_0 || ' VALUES (';
     selquery    := substring(selquery    ,1,length(selquery)-1)    || '] AS MYARRAY';
     selquery    := selquery    || ' FROM ' ||quote_ident(p_schema)||'.'||quote_ident(p_table);
     selquery    := selquery    || ' WHERE '||p_where;
     -- GLOBAL --
     -- ------ --

     -- ----------- --
     -- SELECT LOOP --
     --   execute SELECT built and loop on each row
     <<label1>>
     FOR valrec IN  EXECUTE  selquery
     LOOP
         dumpquery_1 := '';
         IF not found THEN
             EXIT ;
         END IF;

         -- ----------- --
         -- LOOP ARRAY (EACH FIELDS) --
         <<label2>>
         FOREACH selvalue in ARRAY valrec.MYARRAY
         LOOP
             IF selvalue IS NULL
             THEN selvalue := 'NULL';
             ELSE selvalue := quote_literal(selvalue);
             END IF;
             dumpquery_1 := dumpquery_1 || selvalue || ',';
         END LOOP label2;
         dumpquery_1 := substring(dumpquery_1 ,1,length(dumpquery_1)-1) || ');';
         -- LOOP ARRAY (EACH FIELD) --
         -- ----------- --

         -- debug: RETURN NEXT dumpquery_0 || dumpquery_1 || ' --' || selquery;
         -- debug: RETURN NEXT selquery;
         RETURN NEXT dumpquery_0 || dumpquery_1;

     END LOOP label1 ;
     -- SELECT LOOP --
     -- ----------- --

 RETURN ;
 END
 $function$
;
```

This assignment needs added.

```
alter function dump(text, text, text) owner to ownername;
```

Commit message:

GitBook: [#1662] export import api updated images and steps for swagger

migration-and-promoting/export-and-import-api.md, after:

---
description: Promoting and moving datasets across environments
---

# Export and Import API

{% hint style="info" %}
The database needs the [stored procedure](export-and-import-api.md#stored-procedure) to use the Export/Import API. 
{% endhint %}

### Step 1 - Get-Exports

Best practice is to use the get-exports endpoint for most scenarios.  You can pass in several dataset names and several tables at once. This endpoint will create a JSON payload

**The three most common tables are:**

* owl_rule
* job_schedule
* owl\__check_repo_

```
http://<url>/v2/get-exports?dataset=public.dataset_scan_2,public.dataset_scan_1&schema=public&tables=owl_rule,job_schedule,owl_check_repo
```

#### Use Swagger to build this for you

This is located under controller-scala (internal API)

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (99).png>)

#### Click Try it out to input the details

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (67).png>)

### Step 2 - Run-Import

{% hint style="info" %}
You will want to perform a find/replace on the import payload to check for differences in connections, agents, spark and environment configurations.  Migrating to different environments typically requires the payload to be modified.
{% endhint %}

Run import on the desired environment, passing the output of the previous statement to the body of the request 

```javascript
http://<url>/v2/run-import
```

#### Use Swagger to try it out 

This is under controller-catalog

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (98).png>)

![](<../.gitbook/assets/image (91).png>)

This would be the body of the POST.

![](../.gitbook/assets/screen-shot-2021-04-26-at-10.13.18-am.png)

## Stored Procedure

The following function needs to be created in the Owl metastore before this can run. 

```
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION public.dump(p_schema text, p_table text, p_where text)
 RETURNS SETOF text
 LANGUAGE plpgsql
AS $function$
 DECLARE
     dumpquery_0 text;
     dumpquery_1 text;
     selquery text;
     selvalue text;
     valrec record;
     colrec record;
 BEGIN

     -- ------ --
     -- GLOBAL --
     --   build base INSERT
     --   build SELECT array[ ... ]
     dumpquery_0 := 'INSERT INTO ' ||  quote_ident(p_schema) || '.' || quote_ident(p_table) || '(';
     selquery    := 'SELECT array[';

     <<label0>>
     FOR colrec IN SELECT table_schema, table_name, column_name, data_type
                   FROM information_schema.columns
                   WHERE table_name = p_table and table_schema = p_schema
                   ORDER BY ordinal_position
     LOOP
         dumpquery_0 := dumpquery_0 || quote_ident(colrec.column_name) || ',';
         selquery    := selquery    || 'CAST(' || quote_ident(colrec.column_name) || ' AS TEXT),';
     END LOOP label0;

     dumpquery_0 := substring(dumpquery_0 ,1,length(dumpquery_0)-1) || ')';
     dumpquery_0 := dumpquery_0 || ' VALUES (';
     selquery    := substring(selquery    ,1,length(selquery)-1)    || '] AS MYARRAY';
     selquery    := selquery    || ' FROM ' ||quote_ident(p_schema)||'.'||quote_ident(p_table);
     selquery    := selquery    || ' WHERE '||p_where;
     -- GLOBAL --
     -- ------ --

     -- ----------- --
     -- SELECT LOOP --
     --   execute SELECT built and loop on each row
     <<label1>>
     FOR valrec IN  EXECUTE  selquery
     LOOP
         dumpquery_1 := '';
         IF not found THEN
             EXIT ;
         END IF;

         -- ----------- --
         -- LOOP ARRAY (EACH FIELDS) --
         <<label2>>
         FOREACH selvalue in ARRAY valrec.MYARRAY
         LOOP
             IF selvalue IS NULL
             THEN selvalue := 'NULL';
             ELSE selvalue := quote_literal(selvalue);
             END IF;
             dumpquery_1 := dumpquery_1 || selvalue || ',';
         END LOOP label2;
         dumpquery_1 := substring(dumpquery_1 ,1,length(dumpquery_1)-1) || ');';
         -- LOOP ARRAY (EACH FIELD) --
         -- ----------- --

         -- debug: RETURN NEXT dumpquery_0 || dumpquery_1 || ' --' || selquery;
         -- debug: RETURN NEXT selquery;
         RETURN NEXT dumpquery_0 || dumpquery_1;

     END LOOP label1 ;
     -- SELECT LOOP --
     -- ----------- --

 RETURN ;
 END
 $function$
;
```

This assignment needs added.

```
alter function dump(text, text, text) owner to ownername;
```
