dq-visuals/rules/README.md, before:

---
description: Users can apply custom monitoring with SQL checks.
---

# Rules

### Rules.  Can't live with them, can't live without them.

Owl takes a strong stance that data should first be profiled, auto-discovered and learned before applying basic rules.  This methodology commonly removes thousands of rules that will never need to be written and evolve naturally overtime.  However there are still many cases to add a simple rule, complex rule or domain specific rule.  Simply search for any dataset and add a rule. You can use the optional Column Name/Category/Description to add meta-data to your rules for future reporting.

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (48).png>)

### Types of Rules 

Depending on the complexity, users can choose from short form or long form rules. 

#### **Simple** 

Just the condition (short form).  For example, using the column email_address. This runs against the dataframe and uses spark SQL syntax 

```
email_address is not null and email_address != '' 
```

#### Freeform

This is the fully spelled out SQL. When more complex SQL is required, you can express more with Freeform including joins, CTE's and window statements.

```
select * from @DATASET_NAME where 
email_address is not null and email_address != '' 
```

{% hint style="info" %}
All built-in spark functions are available to use. ([https://spark.apache.org/docs/2.3.0/api/sql/](https://spark.apache.org/docs/2.3.0/api/sql/)) for simple and freeform sql rules.‌
{% endhint %}

#### Native

Native rules use the SQL dialect of the underlying connection and database.  Files are not eligible for native SQL rules.  This is ideal if you want to use push-down profiling and you want to use existing SQL logic.  When coupled with push-down profiling, you can achieve a very minimal infrastructure footprint.

See the [native rules section](../../dq-job-examples/data-quality-pipelines/owl-rules-dq-pipeline/sql-based-rules/native-sql.md) for more details.

#### Stat

Write rules against meta data and profiling stats.  Complex counts and ratios can be referenced with simple syntax.  

See the [stat rules section](./#stat-rules) for more details.

#### Template

Templated rules can be found in the 'type' dropdown as well as the 'quick rules' drop-down.  These are global rules that are ideal for code sets, compliance checks, and regex checks.

See the [rule library section](dq-rule-automation.md) for more details. 

{% hint style="info" %}
Customized discovery routines can be run using the [rule library](./#rule-library) together with [data concepts and semantics.](data-concepts-and-semantics.md)
{% endhint %}

### Rule Library

Owl shares all of it's out of the box rules with each user/tenant.  This makes it easy to get started quickly and let the team add common rules for specific use-cases. See Rule Library for more information.

![](../../.gitbook/assets/owl-rule-repo.png)

#### OOTB Rule Library

Below is a list of one click rules that can be added to any dataset.  It is important to note that Owl often self identifies these columns and automatically provides the proper protection.

* Email
* Zip
* Credit Card
* SSN
* EIN
* State Code
* Phone
* Gender
* IP Address
* Date
* Int
* Double

The quick rule drop-down offers another great way to apply rules at the click of a button in the preview tab.

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (49).png>)

#### Add to The Rule Library

Create a rule once using our rule template builder and re-use the rule across any column on any dataset.  Owl will substitute the dataset and column that the rule applies to at runtime. This commonly saves hundreds of redundant rules that do the same thing but on different column names.

#### More Information on Rule Library

{% content-ref url="dq-rule-automation.md" %}
[dq-rule-automation.md](dq-rule-automation.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

### Query Builder

Query builder will help generate SQL for more complex rules. You can apply to one or two tables (Table A on left and Table B on right). 

![(Optional)  Start by searching for table B on the right, to set a key for the join condition](../../.gitbook/assets/screen-shot-2019-09-04-at-12.39.17-pm.png)

![Input conditions and click SQL statement to generate example syntax](../../.gitbook/assets/screen-shot-2019-09-04-at-12.46.02-pm.png)

### Native SQL

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (89).png>)

If you have rules already written in Oracle, Sybase, or DB2 syntax - Copy/Paste the rule directly into the Native SQL section. 

When creating a Native SQL rule, keep the following in mind:

* The SQL query must be a valid expression that can be run as a subquery. To avoid pulling large amounts of data into memory, Collibra DQ will wrap your expression so it only fetches the number of rows returned. Rules should be written such that the query returns the anomalous rows.
* The SQL query must take less than 30 minutes to run. It is recommended to use partitioned columns for efficiency.
* When testing the SQL query from the app, it is helpful if it take less than 30 seconds to run. You can add a limit to reduce query time, or test the query in your SQL Editor.

### Stat Rules

One really powerful technique is to access the profile statistics in your rules.  These are typically sub-second operations that do not require scanning or iterating.  There are several cases where SQL struggles to support rules, such as: isNull but not "null count" or nullRatio or nullPercent.  Or having access to types without doing crazy cast() operations.  These are simplified below, i.e. fname.$type == 'String'

```sql
select * from @dataset where 
fname.$type != 'String' AND $rowCount < 800
```

| Dataset Level Stat      | Rule Example             | Description                                    |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| **$totalTimeInSeconds** | $totalTimeInSeconds > 25 | alert when DQ job runs longer than 25 seconds. |
| **$totalTimeInMinutes** | $totalTimeInMinutes > 5  | alert when DQ job runs longer than 5 mins.     |
| **$totalTimeInHours**   | $totalTimeInHours > 1    | alert when DQ job runs longer than 1 hour.     |
| **$rowCount**           | $rowCount < 9000         | alert when row count less than 9,000           |
| **$runId**              | $runId = '2020-01-24'    | use the ${rd} variable in rules                |

| Column Level Stat              | Rule Example                             | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **.$type**                     | fname.$type != 'String'                  | alert when fname is not a string                                                                                                                  |
| **.$min**                      | fname.$min > 'apple'                     | lexicographical sort works for strings and numbers                                                                                                |
| **.$minNum**                   | age.$minNum > 13                         | type casted to a numeric for simple number checks                                                                                                 |
| **.$max**                      | fname.$max > 'apple'                     |                                                                                                                                                   |
| **.$maxNum**                   | age.$maxNum > 13                         |                                                                                                                                                   |
| .**$uniqueCount**              | id.$uniqueCount != $rowCount             | alert when the uniqueCount of a field doesn't match the rowCount                                                                                  |
| **.$uniqueRatio             ** | gender.$uniqueRatio between .4 and .6    |                                                                                                                                                   |
| **.$nullRatio**                | lname.$nullRatio not between .4 and .6   | alert when the ratio of nulls no longer falls within acceptable range                                                                             |
| **.$nullPercent**              | lname.$nullPercent not between 40 and 60 | alert when the percent of nulls no longer falls within acceptable range                                                                           |
| **.$nullCount**                | lname.$nullCount >= 1                    | test for a single null                                                                                                                            |
| **.$emptyRatio**               | nc.$emptyRatio > 0.2                     | alert when the ratio of empties no longer falls within acceptable range                                                                           |
| **.$emptyPercent**             | nc.$emptyPercent > 20                    | alert when the percent of empties no longer falls within acceptable range                                                                         |
| **.$emptyCount**               |                                          |                                                                                                                                                   |
| **.$mixedTypeRatio**           | nc.$mixedTypeRatio > 0.2                 | ****                                                                                                                                              |
| **.$mixedTypePercent**         | nc.$mixedTypeRatio > 20                  | <p>alert when the percent of mixed data types </p><p>no longer falls within acceptable range. </p><p> i.e. Strings and Ints in the same field</p> |
| **.$mixedTypeCount**           | id.$mixedTypeCount >= 1                  |                                                                                                                                                   |

![](../../.gitbook/assets/colstatrules.png)

Known limitation.  Cannot combine stat rules or distribution rules with regex rules in the same rule.  Example car\__vin rlike '$\[asdf]\[0-9]' and car_vin.$uniqueCount_

### Distribution Rule

There is a common case in DQ where you want to know the distribution of a columns value.  Meaning if you have gender there may be an expectation that 40-60% are males and 40-60% are females if the dataset is large and represents the population.  This can be rather hard or expensive to express in vanilla SQL, but is very easy with the below syntax.

```sql
gender['Male'].$uniquePercent between 40 and 60
```

| Column Value Level  | Rule                                                   |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| **.$uniqueCount**   | credit_rating\['FAIR'].$uniqueCount > 7                |
| **.$uniquePercent** | credit_rating\['GOOD'].uniquePercent between 40 and 60 |

![](../../.gitbook/assets/screen-shot-2021-05-10-at-2.24.51-pm.png)

### Quick Tips

If joining more than one data source, make sure both sets of drivers are in the -lib. Or separately supply a -libsrc pointing to the appropriate directory/jar file location. Version 2021.11 and forward will use the -addlib for additional directories to add to the classpath.

Native SQL uses your native DB syntax. The score is total break records / rows from owlchectotal k scaof DQ job. 

 Spark SQL syntax.  

This complete list of Spark SQL operlators and functions

l

Commit message:

GitBook: [#1648] rule section typo edits

dq-visuals/rules/README.md, after:

---
description: Users can apply custom monitoring with SQL
---

# Rules

### Rules.  Can't live with them, can't live without them.

Owl takes a strong stance that data should first be profiled, auto-discovered and learned before applying basic rules.  This methodology commonly removes thousands of rules that will never need to be written and evolve naturally overtime.  However there are still many cases to add a simple rule, complex rule or domain specific rule.  Simply search for any dataset and add a rule. You can use the optional Column Name/Category/Description to add meta-data to your rules for future reporting.

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (48).png>)

{% hint style="info" %}
Monitoring is done through user-defined SQL statements.
{% endhint %}

### Types of Rules 

Depending on the complexity, users can choose from short form or long form rules. 

#### **Simple** 

Just the condition (short form).  For example, using the column email_address. This runs against the dataframe and uses Spark SQL syntax.  An easy way to think about Simple rules is 'everything after the where clause'. 

```
email_address is not null and email_address != '' 
```

#### Freeform

Where 'Simple' rules just use the condition, 'Freeform' rules use the complete SQL statement. When more complex SQL is required, you can express more with Freeform including joins, CTE's and window statements.

```
select * from @DATASET_NAME where 
email_address is not null and email_address != '' 
```

{% hint style="info" %}
All built-in spark functions are available to use. ([https://spark.apache.org/docs/2.3.0/api/sql/](https://spark.apache.org/docs/2.3.0/api/sql/)) for simple and freeform sql rules.‌
{% endhint %}

#### Native

Native rules use the SQL dialect of the underlying connection and database.  Files are not eligible for native SQL rules.  This is ideal if you want to use push-down profiling and you want to use existing SQL logic.  When coupled with push-down profiling, you can achieve a very minimal infrastructure footprint.

See the [native rules section](../../dq-job-examples/data-quality-pipelines/owl-rules-dq-pipeline/sql-based-rules/native-sql.md) for more details.

#### Stat

Write rules against meta data and profiling stats.  Complex counts and ratios can be referenced with simple syntax.  

See the [stat rules section](./#stat-rules) for more details.

#### Template

Templated rules can be found in the 'type' dropdown as well as the 'quick rules' drop-down.  The complete list of template rules is located in the Rule Library section. These meant for global rules that are ideal for code sets, compliance checks, and regex checks. These are ideal for checks that apply to many tables.

See the [rule library section](dq-rule-automation.md) for more details. 

{% hint style="info" %}
Customized discovery routines can be run using the [rule library](./#rule-library) together with [data concepts and semantics.](data-concepts-and-semantics.md)
{% endhint %}

### Rule Library

Owl shares all of it's out of the box rules with each user/tenant.  This makes it easy to get started quickly and let the team add common rules for specific use-cases. See Rule Library for more information.

![](../../.gitbook/assets/owl-rule-repo.png)

#### OOTB Rule Library

Below is a list of one click rules that can be added to any dataset.  It is important to note that Owl often self identifies these columns and automatically provides the proper protection.

* Email
* Zip
* Credit Card
* SSN
* EIN
* State Code
* Phone
* Gender
* IP Address
* Date
* Int
* Double

The quick rule drop-down offers another great way to apply rules at the click of a button in the preview tab.

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (49).png>)

#### Add to The Rule Library

Create a rule once using our rule template builder and re-use the rule across any column on any dataset.  Owl will substitute the dataset and column that the rule applies to at runtime. This commonly saves hundreds of redundant rules that do the same thing but on different column names.

#### More Information on Rule Library

{% content-ref url="dq-rule-automation.md" %}
[dq-rule-automation.md](dq-rule-automation.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

### Query Builder

Query builder will help generate SQL for more complex rules. You can apply to one or two tables (Table A on left and Table B on right). The query builder can help build up multi-part conditions.  

![(Optional)  Start by searching for table B on the right, to set a key for the join condition](../../.gitbook/assets/screen-shot-2019-09-04-at-12.39.17-pm.png)

![Input conditions and click SQL statement to generate example syntax](../../.gitbook/assets/screen-shot-2019-09-04-at-12.46.02-pm.png)

{% hint style="info" %}
As with any SQL generator, there are limitations for more complex scenarios.
{% endhint %}

### Native SQL

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (89).png>)

If you have rules already written in Oracle, Sybase, or DB2 syntax - Copy/Paste the rule directly into the Native SQL section. 

When creating a Native SQL rule, keep the following in mind:

* The SQL query must be a valid expression that can be run as a subquery. To avoid pulling large amounts of data into memory, Collibra DQ will wrap your expression so it only fetches the number of rows returned. Rules should be written such that the query returns the anomalous rows.
* The SQL query must take less than 30 minutes to run. It is recommended to use partitioned columns for efficiency.
* When testing the SQL query from the app, it is helpful if it take less than 30 seconds to run. You can add a limit to reduce query time, or test the query in your SQL Editor.

{% hint style="info" %}
Testing native rules can be done quickly by limiting the results or using an external SQL IDE as well.
{% endhint %}

### Stat Rules

One really powerful technique is to access the profile statistics in your rules.  These are typically sub-second operations that do not require scanning or iterating.  There are several cases where SQL struggles to support rules, such as: isNull but not "null count" or nullRatio or nullPercent.  Or having access to types without doing crazy cast() operations.  These are simplified below, i.e. fname.$type == 'String'

```sql
select * from @dataset where 
fname.$type != 'String' AND $rowCount < 800
```

| Dataset Level Stat      | Rule Example             | Description                                    |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| **$totalTimeInSeconds** | $totalTimeInSeconds > 25 | alert when DQ job runs longer than 25 seconds. |
| **$totalTimeInMinutes** | $totalTimeInMinutes > 5  | alert when DQ job runs longer than 5 mins.     |
| **$totalTimeInHours**   | $totalTimeInHours > 1    | alert when DQ job runs longer than 1 hour.     |
| **$rowCount**           | $rowCount < 9000         | alert when row count less than 9,000           |
| **$runId**              | $runId = '2020-01-24'    | use the ${rd} variable in rules                |

| Column Level Stat              | Rule Example                             | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **.$type**                     | fname.$type != 'String'                  | alert when fname is not a string                                                                                                                  |
| **.$min**                      | fname.$min > 'apple'                     | lexicographical sort works for strings and numbers                                                                                                |
| **.$minNum**                   | age.$minNum > 13                         | type casted to a numeric for simple number checks                                                                                                 |
| **.$max**                      | fname.$max > 'apple'                     |                                                                                                                                                   |
| **.$maxNum**                   | age.$maxNum > 13                         |                                                                                                                                                   |
| .**$uniqueCount**              | id.$uniqueCount != $rowCount             | alert when the uniqueCount of a field doesn't match the rowCount                                                                                  |
| **.$uniqueRatio             ** | gender.$uniqueRatio between .4 and .6    |                                                                                                                                                   |
| **.$nullRatio**                | lname.$nullRatio not between .4 and .6   | alert when the ratio of nulls no longer falls within acceptable range                                                                             |
| **.$nullPercent**              | lname.$nullPercent not between 40 and 60 | alert when the percent of nulls no longer falls within acceptable range                                                                           |
| **.$nullCount**                | lname.$nullCount >= 1                    | test for a single null                                                                                                                            |
| **.$emptyRatio**               | nc.$emptyRatio > 0.2                     | alert when the ratio of empties no longer falls within acceptable range                                                                           |
| **.$emptyPercent**             | nc.$emptyPercent > 20                    | alert when the percent of empties no longer falls within acceptable range                                                                         |
| **.$emptyCount**               |                                          |                                                                                                                                                   |
| **.$mixedTypeRatio**           | nc.$mixedTypeRatio > 0.2                 | ****                                                                                                                                              |
| **.$mixedTypePercent**         | nc.$mixedTypeRatio > 20                  | <p>alert when the percent of mixed data types </p><p>no longer falls within acceptable range. </p><p> i.e. Strings and Ints in the same field</p> |
| **.$mixedTypeCount**           | id.$mixedTypeCount >= 1                  |                                                                                                                                                   |

![](../../.gitbook/assets/colstatrules.png)

Known limitation.  Cannot combine stat rules or distribution rules with regex rules in the same rule.  Example car\__vin rlike '$\[asdf]\[0-9]' and car_vin.$uniqueCount_

### Distribution Rule

There is a common case in DQ where you want to know the distribution of a columns value.  Meaning if you have gender there may be an expectation that 40-60% are males and 40-60% are females if the dataset is large and represents the population.  This can be rather hard or expensive to express in vanilla SQL, but is very easy with the below syntax.

```sql
gender['Male'].$uniquePercent between 40 and 60
```

| Column Value Level  | Rule                                                   |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| **.$uniqueCount**   | credit_rating\['FAIR'].$uniqueCount > 7                |
| **.$uniquePercent** | credit_rating\['GOOD'].uniquePercent between 40 and 60 |

![](../../.gitbook/assets/screen-shot-2021-05-10-at-2.24.51-pm.png)

### Quick Tips

If joining more than one data source, make sure both sets of drivers are in the -lib. Or separately supply a -libsrc pointing to the appropriate directory/jar file location. Version 2021.11 and forward will use the -addlib for additional directories to add to the classpath.

Native SQL uses your native DB syntax. The score is total break records / rows from owlchectotal k scaof DQ job. 

 Spark SQL syntax.  

This complete list of Spark SQL operators and functions
